
# CocoaPods - An amazing ride

[Fabio Pelosin](https://twitter.com/fabiopelosin), March 25, 2014

_Fabio Pelosin is the co-author of CocoaPods. Travis Foundation has secured funding for CocoaPods from [SoundCloud](http://soundcloud.com) so that Fabio was able to work on CocoaPods for three months._

---


I'm a little bit sad to announce that the sponsorship on CocoaPods reached its completion. However, thruth to be told, there is nothing to be sad about it. This experience has been nothing less than an amazing ride.

Thanks to the sponsorship I was able to work on many features which helped CocoaPods to move a step closer to the milestone: version 1.0.

One of the major features introduced by the sponsored work on CocoaPods was the support for the specification of dependencies per build configuration. This functionality allows to scope code intended for debug This functionality has been one of the most frequently asked enhancements by our users.

Another feature that I could focus on was the support for the specification of the specification sources in the Podfile. This was an important limtation which CocoaPods carried on from its infancy. The lack of this feature could lead to installations on differnt machines producing different results. Being predicatability on the best traits of great sofware I'm very happy that this weak point has finally been addressed.

Moreover, the sponsorship allowed me to focus on an area often negledted: the internally developed dependencies of CocoaPods. Working on the dependencies allows the Core team to focus on a higher level as we can be confident about the robustness of our vital foundations. While the stable release of CocoaPods is still far in the horizon, most of the dependencies have greatly matured and they are very close to version 1. Concretly this effort lead to faster downloads, reorganization of the files generated by CocoaPods and a simplified installation installation process.

Finally I would like to mention that the contribution lead to progress that unfortunately have not been ready to ship yet. Important dicussion and research had been done on other features like the support for editing dependencies directly and the usage of the targets of Xcode projects directly as dependency.

Working with the Travis Foundation has been a wonderful experience. They have been very helpful and comprehensive about the perils of Open Source development. I wholehearty would reccomend to any Open Source developer a similar experience. 

I would like to thank SoundCloud and the Travis Foundation for their support. Without their contribution, I wouldn't have been able to focus so much effort on CocoaPods. Initiatives like this constitute an important engine to foster the development of the CocoaPods community and of the Open Source community in general.
